# Why

It's one thing to create a server-side app which works for your iPhone and runs a simple service but I wanted to create an app which was dynamic and used Apple's tiniest device - the Apple Watch.


## Brief overview of Heartwitch: The inspiration behind gBeat


I am a fan of classic retro video games and over the last 10 years a culture of speed running `What is Speed running` has emerged. As one can imagine when you are trying to beat `a video game` in record time, your heart rate can get high. There are a class of devices which specifically for this. However if one were to already wear a smart device which read the user's heart rate while speed running, it would remove the need for third party devices and remove one extra layer of inconvenience. 

This became the genesis of **Heartwitch** an app dedicated to Twitch live streamers who wished to share their heart rate while playing video games. not just speed runners but also horror games as well.

## Introduction to gBeat: A health and fitness live streaming app

 in 2021 I was contracted by founders, Chris Hart `photo` and Chelsea Kmiec `photo` about a new app for the Apple Watch - gBeat. With a pandemic gripping the world, people weren't visiting their local gyms. What if there was an app, which could allow people to work out from home and share their heart rate in real time. `photo of gBeat in use`.
 
 Having heard me speak about Heartwitch on social media and my podcast, Chris was convinced gBeat could co-opt much of the same APIs and technologies in gBeat.